So let's move on then to Flexbox and
talk a little bit more specifically about
what's going on in the world of Flexbox.
Flexbox stands for
flexible boxes and the specification
was defined actually around 2008, 2009.
And they were never envisioned
of laying out whole web pages.
This is a theme that we have in CSS,
we have hacked our way through layouts for
so long.
The idea here with Flexbox was that
it would lay out parts of webpages
that Flexbox was for UI,
as opposed to entire page layouts.
Flexbox is really good at vertical
centering and an equal heights, and
it's really easy to reorder boxes,
which is a wonderful thing.
But the big disadvantage with Flexbox is
that it was never designed to be locked
down for the layouts.
It's really a one
dimensional type of layout.
And it's very hard to understand exactly
what I'm talking about when I say one
dimensional layout, but
I want you to think about rose.
And if you look at web pages today,
you can very much see that people
are thinking about a row on the page,
maybe it has some things inside of it.
Then we have another row on
the page with some other things,
another row on the page, more things.
That is because Flexbox thinks
about itself in terms of rows,
as opposed to thinking of itself in
two dimensions more like CSS grid.
A couple of pieces of terminology that
will be helpful to you the concept of
the main axis, and the cross axis,
the flex item, and the flex container.
I'm really not talking a lot about
flex containers and flex items, flex
containers are parents, flex items are
children and this has to do with the HTML.
And the way the HTML is put together
we're gonna talk a lot, a lot,
a lot about it when we start doing code.
Because whether an item is a parent or
whether it's a child would determine
what CSS properties are available to
leverage in laying out your webpage.
Flexbox of course can go in two
directions, so if you happen to have
the setup for columns,
the main axis is the vertical axis.
But if you set your Flexbox to rows
instead your main axis becomes
the horizontal axis and
the cross axis becomes the vertical axis.
I don't hear a lot of people
talking about main axis and
cross axis when they talk about Flexbox
they mostly talk about rows and columns.
Probably because main axis and cross axis
are terms that are a little bit confusing
and change with the dimensions
of the webpage.
So you'll hear me talk a lot about
horizontal or vertical, you'll hear
me talk a lot about flex containers,
flex items, and parents, and children.
So the three versions of Flexbox, they
started way back like I said in 2009, and
we had a display property
the value of which was box, and
that would allow us to use
some Flexbox properties.
As you know browsers rolled out much
more slowly back in those days and so
we had older browsers that
were supporting the syntax.
The W3C had something happen and
everybody decided to redefine
everything having to do with Flexbox.
So we came up with a new syntax
that rolled out in 2011 the only
browser that ever supported
this so-called tweener syntax.
The syntax that comes in between
the old and the new version,
the current version that we use now.
The only browser that supported
that was IE 10 good times,
and so
in 2016 we finally had display flex.
We had all the browsers that
are supporting it the browser's have been
supporting it now for quite a while it's
a very safe type of technology to use.
Now as always, the only time you need to
be concerned about this is with IE support
at this moment in time, because of
course IE is no longer being updated.
I hope you don't have to
support IE anymore, but
I am aware that there are people mostly
working at universities, or in government,
who may still have to
support that browser.
All of the other modern ones that
roll out on a regular basis Safari,
Firefox, Chrome, and Edge,
all of them support Flexbox just fine.
They're some games you might be aware
of that have been out for some time.
Feel free to play these,
on your own Flexbox froggy and
Flexbox defense, we'll focus on.
Really the syntax of how
to get Flexbox to work, but
it doesn't really teach you
the thought behind Flexbox.
And so I'm gonna spend more time on how to
think about a Flexbox problem rather than
on all of the various syntax, so these
are games that you can play on your own.
There's a ton of properties
that are available,
you may want to print out some information
like this I have here on slide.
I think I have a separate text file
that you can refer to for that or
just take a look at CSS tricks.
They have a great page that describes all
of the properties and values for Flexbox.